---
layout: post
title:  "Alexis"
date:   2017-12-20 14:45:09 -0500
image: "alexis.png"
---

“I identify as a Christian, African American woman who is super passionate about public health, specifically advocating for access to quality healthcare for all people, and I’m from South Alabama -- that corner that touches Georgia and Florida.

I was born and raised in South Alabama but have spent the greater part of the last 6 years in the northeast (Boston, NYC). Coming to the northeast was definitely a culture shock! I think the biggest one was really just the friendliness of people (which people say a lot) but to me it really was a shocker because it's really common for me to speak to/acknowledge folks that I don't know as a way of letting them know that they are seen and spreading a bit of ‘I see you and you're welcome here’ to them.

However, going deeper into identity and how where I grew up shaped my understanding of my identity, I think I didn't realize how much it did until I went to college and took my first class on Race and Education. I finally had a name and understanding (as well as hearing that I wasn't alone in experiencing this things) for my feelings and experiences, particularly in high school. So much of the microagressions (ex. you're an oreo, all you need to do to get into college is send them your test scores and a picture and you'll get it, you don't 'sound black') that I experienced definitely made me uncomfortable but it was so normalized that I never knew how to say they offensive/othering or even explain why. This idea that my existence or my way of expression had to be filtered through whiteness or that there was some negative connotation associated with something being unapologetically black definitely took time to unpack.

Sometimes when people ask me about my faith or how I identify in terms of spirituality or religion, I like to describe Christianity for me as a lens with which I view the world, rather than an identity box. It's what influences how I live and interact with people. The crux of Christianity is an act of love and part of the mission is to share that love in action to people around me and that looks different in different situations but I think in the everyday, it's a matter of seeing each and every person as worthy of respect, worthy of belonging, worthy of being seen, and worthy of being heard. And sometimes that's hard because sometimes you won't agree or sometimes folks won't see you that way but we love anyway. I think my faith also anchors me to a hope that, at the end of the day, cannot be snuffed out by everything that's going on in the world. Because my joy and hope is tied to and rooted in God, it means that I don't get my worth and acceptance from other people, my grades, the political climate (which is a work in progress for sure!) and that comes with a freedom to live out my truth and hopefully spread light and love along the way! So in the past year, I have been a journey to reclaim that freedom and recognize areas in my life where I have not been living that out.

Disability and rights of persons with disabilities -- during our first [Self, Social, and Global Awareness Program at Mailman], in terms of identities and visible disabilities, it was very clear who was and wasn't in the room and I think that is something to think about as a university and as public health professionals. Diversity and inclusion also include different abilities. I had the opportunity to work with a nonprofit working to change the narrative surrounding disability and looking at disability and inclusion from a rights perspective and how do we begin to look at integration and inclusion of PWDs into all spaces. I think because of that I also have "disability inclusion glasses". Globally, more than 1 billion people have a disability yet we certainly don't see that represented in society and places of power and there are so many spaces that are incredibly inaccessible to PWDs.

Know that you are seen, worthy, and loved. <3”
