---
layout: post
title:  "Judy"
date:   2017-12-16 14:45:09 -0500
image: "judy.png"
---

Judy is a “first generation Nigerian-American female medical student from Montgomery, AL.

My childhood in Alabama was pleasant for the most part. I was insulated by my parents and the Nigerian community in Montgomery for the first few years of my life. I didn't really recognize differences in class or race until elementary school when some of the black kids would exclude me from their conversations because they thought I couldn't relate to them or wouldn't get their references. I still managed to find friends, but from then on I knew that I was perceived as different by the very people I identified with. I went to a school with international students in 4th and 5th grade, so I was always fascinated by other cultures and thrilled to meet people from different countries. I loved teaching my new international friends American culture and hearing about their lives back home in their country. Once I got to middle school, however, where most people were either white, black, or Korean (shoutout to Hyundai) I felt pressured to fit in and be "black" enough. I started watching BET and Flavor of Love on Vh1. Sixth grade was rough, but by 8th grade I fully came into myself and started to care less about being accepted. By high school I really didn't struggle with my identity at all. I found friends that I truly connected with. I was a minority at my school, but I felt comfortable for the most part. There were times I had to argue about affirmative action and about why Obama should be re-elected, but I didn't care that some of the people around me were ignorant because I knew I'd be going out of state for college and would never see them again haha.

Because my identity has constantly been challenged and called into question, I've learned to take other people's opinions with a grain of salt. I've had to become more in tune with who I am and what I desire in life so that I don't subconsciously accept the projections that others may throw on to me. What other people think about us isn't always our business.

My identity has made me stronger, bolder, and more resilient. I challenge myself to take up as much space as my white counterparts, to demand the same service and respect. Even with this confidence I still occasionally find myself sometimes moving in a way that makes white people more comfortable. I'll enunciate more, speak more calmly, walk a little slower, smile a little more just because I know they fear me because of the color of my skin. I don't know why I do it. I think it's a learned behavior that creeps back up every now and then.

As I've gotten older it's been easier to connect with other black people despite my Nigerian American background. It's cool to be from Africa now. Everyone listens to AfroBeats and has had jollof.

I'm no longer hard on myself when I don't click with certain black people off the bat. It's not because I'm not "black enough". It's simply because I didn't click with that person. That's just life.

It's human instinct to categorize people, places, and things. Be mindful of the boxes you put people in. Challenge yourself to become more aware of your own inward prejudice. Don't project your beliefs about a person onto them. Literally who are YOU? What gives you authority to tell people who they are? Listen and respect everyone's story. Try to understand them. Ask questions. Go deeper.

What America claims to be: a place where anyone, regardless of creed, race, or class can work honestly to build a comfortable life for themselves and their family. Is that America today? Not sure. Was it ever? Not sure. But the idea is attractive and tantalizing.
