---
layout: post
title:  "Hubert"
date:   2017-12-25 14:45:09 -0500
image: "hubert.png"
---

Hubert is a queer Filipino-American New Yorker born in Manila, Philippines.

Hubert moved to the States and grew up in Flushing, Queens. “My family moved there because that were a lot of my fathers family was settled. So they were my Filipino influences. But being from Queens I was around people from all different heritages. I believe that’s the special New York part comes from me. Being more comfortable around people with vibrant deep backgrounds; basically immigrants.

I didn’t know I was an immigrant until high school when my family started getting approved for green cards; being able to put a word to an identity didn’t really showed me what I was, but what I wasn’t. At some point in high school, being a queer, brown, immigrant in an all-boys catholic high school had me wishing I was white, to make my life easier. But after a while, learning that the all-boys Catholic high school in suburban queens wasn’t the only world left for me, I actively began trying to understand the feelings of responsibility of being a child immigrant or the first person in my family who will probably be openly queer, through art, music, literature and surrounding myself with positive brown role models.

I still view my identity as not so much as who I am, but what I am not. Identity to me is so important in terms of representation. Which is why I love that intersectionality has entered the lexicon on race, and culture. I find a sense of responsibility to act and thrive on my identities in public spaces that call for it. By that I mean public spaces that for some reason white-masculinity have chosen to take over.

The first time I truly felt like the other was when entering queer spaces. I find whiteness, specially when I was coming out was running rampant. I felt it when dating, without understanding it at the time being brown and queer was outwardly undesirable: “no fats, no fems, no Asians.” When coming out a community that was filled with others, it amazed me that there were new hoops of other to jump through.  

I believe there needs to be a larger discussion on the trials, hardships, and the needs of brown women. As we are starting to move into a time where women’s voices are being demanded, the voice of brown women are being left behind. Their experiences are not being accounted for, because the experiences of the white women is put first. And there needs to be a more precise nuance to how to bring all women up together.

By openly talk about my narrative, opinion, and perspective, I hope others will relate in a way that takes the shame away from them talking about their experiences.

The ability, with the right tools, opportunities, and hard work, to live the life each person wishes to live. Personally as a queer, immigrant, brown person if I find myself happily married with children, I know I’ve lived my American dream. But if another person find themselves thriving for success in another way, they should have the ability to with out absurd obstacles created by institutionalized racism.

I've found myself being worried about being the angry brown person. The opinions of others when I wish to talk about race, queerness, or rights for specific groups are meet with caution because immediately as a brown person when getting angry I’m seen as irrational.

Don’t forget to appreciate and support those who are outwardly fighting for our rights, don’t forget to do your part, and don’t forget to be responsible. I can admit I have caught myself overstepping my boundaries when it comes to talking in a space or situation where I was simply a guest.
