---
layout: post
title:  "Danielle"
date:   2017-12-28 14:45:09 -0500
image: "danielle.png"
---

Danielle is a first-generation Black Trinidadian-American Woman in Public Health.

She grew up in a suburb of Washington, DC. “Growing up in that area gave me positive role models of all identities. I felt good about myself and blessed with parents that brought another culture into the house and my being. I was amongst people that were from all over the world and it was not just okay but a point of pride for many. However, I did not realize just how much of a bubble the DC area was until I left it.

As someone that feels between many worlds and identities, American vs. Trinidadian being the biggest (right now), I seem to make friends that also navigate being first generation Americans and bond over our shared experiences with family and in the world even if we are from nations thousands of miles apart. It's comfortable but still allows me to learn about other people and how to navigate this 2018 America, which is in shambles, with my head held high and in support of people that often feel othered.

I always knew I was black, there was no question or shame about that but when I moved to Pittsburgh, that is when I had to face ignorance, racism, and discrimination head on. Classmates that had never spoken to a black person. Ideas that I was somehow I did not belong or deserve to be in spaces like malls or classrooms. Luckily these negative encounters were few and far between but still hurt nonetheless. I found community in Pittsburgh that was kind, supportive and provided encouragement when necessary.

My presence (black, tall, natural haired, etc.) is often seen as threatening when I enter new spaces, especially work and academic environments. Ideas about who I am, where I come from, and my experiences precede me; I am hyper-visible while still being invisible to many. I keep friends and supporters around me to have a break from the world that can be cruel but I try not to let preconceived notions about who I am keep me from things I want to do and being the person that I am today. My new favorite mantra is "am I too much or are you not enough?"
