---
layout: post
title:  "Linda"
date:   2017-12-04 14:45:09 -0500
image: "linda.png"
---

I'm from Allentown, Pennsylvania. But when it comes to major cities, my heart is with Philly - where my sister is, near where I went to college, where the best sports fans are, and where you can get THE BEST Vietnamese food in the Northeast (change my mind).

I identify as a Vietnamese-American woman-child, cis-gender straight ally, first-generation US-born daughter of refugees, and broke grad student who is just trying her darnedest in this weird world.

As a woman, I was allowed to learn empathy, kindness, and to express my emotions fearlessly (which I may take it to the extreme, since I lead with my heart and wear my emotions right on my sleeve). As an Asian-American woman raised in a predominantly white neighborhood, I understand, love, and fear the world in terms of race. Being first-generation US-born, my parents taught me resilience and pride, but I also developed a bicultural sense of identity that often pulls me in different directions. Much of my personality comes from trying to bridge together these aspects of myself, awkwardly and clumsily.

My parents raised me to seize and value every opportunity (the immigrants' carpe diem), especially since they escaped from Vietnam for a better life here, starting out with very little. Because of this, I am extremely passionate about fighting for the invisible, since the needs of my family and friends have been hidden and overlooked. Also, being socialized with a Western worldview and growing up in a middle-class white neighborhood has afforded me a lot of privileges and social capital which have help to pursue these passions and navigate the academic and professional sphere a little easier. While I am very vocal and proud when it comes to my interests and passions around my peers, in the professional world, I am still pretty timid and passive. I think it comes from both my gender and the way I was raised - my parents always taught me to show people respect always and to be sure not to step on any toes, especially towards those who are older and have more authority.

The first identity I was made aware of was actually my gender. I distinctly remember being shunned by the 4-year old boys in my pre-K class, after naively asking to play blocks with them. They shouted, “No you're not allowed to, so go play with your dolls!” introducing me to the idea of separate spheres through their little peewee fratriarchy.

The first time I was othered because of my race took place before I could even recognize difference among my peers. My mother told me that when I had just started pre-school, the class and their parents took a trip to Rita’s to mingle and eat Italian ice. Another mother tried to bring her son to the table my mom and I were seated at, but he pulled away, saying “I don’t want to eat with her. She looks different.” My mother looked at me, obliviously and contentedly munching on my cherry water ice and her heart broke. The first time I was fully aware of my race and my parents' immigrant identity was in elementary school. My mom would volunteer in the cafeteria during our lunches, serving my peers food and very kindly giving them quarters for ice cream. This one terribly mean kid would mock my mom's accent to my face, and to this day it hurts my heart that I became silent and embarrassed instead of standing up for her.

Due to feeling othered in both gender and race led me to spiral into an identity crisis. I became ashamed of my family and my culture. I tried to “whitewash” myself and took pride when my white friends would tell me "OMG Linda, I TOTALLY forgot you were Asian for a second". That question of "Is it because I'm Asian?" - whether it's someone showing interest in me or getting rejected from a majority white student club or being called smart - has always been in the back of my mind, since I was wired from an early age to buy into the model minority stereotype and the exoticism of Asian women.

According to the American Psychological Association, suicide is the 8th leading cause of death for Asian-Americans, while it is the 11th for the general U.S. population. Asian-Americans are also three times less likely to seek mental health services compared to their White counterparts. While mental health stigmatization is an issue that the entire nation faces, compounding it with racial discrimination severely exacerbates the magnitude of the problem within immigrant and ethnic populations. Thus, viewing mental health through the lens of intersectionality, or overlapping social identities, is vital. While mental health services are lacking across the country, when they are available they are severely underutilized by Asian-American women specifically, in part due to stigma and power dynamics within the family. The intergenerational transfer of trauma has also recently been shown to occur for the current generation of children of Vietnamese and Cambodian refugees. With regards to Asian-American mental health, much of the blame is shifted onto the individual for not seeking care rather than onto our society for not providing it well. By treating mental health as either an individual or a cultural experience, we are distancing ourselves from our shared responsibility to improve it, sweeping yet another bourgeoning epidemic under the rug.

To own yourself and your identity in a way that feels right to you and to not apologize for it - for so long, I suppressed my pride for my Vietnamese-ness for the sake of fitting in. You should never be stigmatized because of your identity or for not manifesting certain aspects of your identity enough. It's ok to be proud of who you are right now, but also make sure to take the time to surround yourself with people who will help you learn and grow into your best self.

The American Dream is a myth (flips table)! All joking aside, dreams are inherently your own. I cannot tell you what you dream of and you cannot tell me the same. But I can tell you my dream for America - to be without hatred and to embrace people as they are. That systemic inequity based on social identities will be dismantled and we can create a society that welcomes all and loves all and does not try to pretend. Basically, "I wish I could bake a cake filled with rainbows and smiles and everyone would eat and be happy" (Crying girl from Mean Girls, 2004). As for my dream for myself, it is to become somebody I am happy with, who never forgets to love and appreciate the people that helped me on my journey to becoming that person, and who gives to my family and community.

My interests fluctuate vastly, and currently I am interested in mental health policy research, single payer advocacy, and the effects of gentrification. While my interests and career goals will probably continue to vary, my main passion and mission stay the same - placing justice and human rights, in relation to health and health care, at the forefront of everything I plan to do in the future.
