---
layout: post
title:  "Gerrie"
date:   2017-12-01 14:45:09 -0500
image: "wsp2.png"
---
"I think something that’s pretty common to the stories of people of color living in America is the fact that even at a young age, you are somehow able to discern you are in some way different, and that it has something to do with the color of your skin. When talking about what it was like when we moved from New Jersey to Selma, Alabama, my mother always brings up my first day of Kindergarten: I came home and told her, “Mom, no one looks like me.”

Am I gay because I was raised around so many Filipino guys? Or because Filipino matriarchal culture taught me to value powerful women? Who knows! But let me tell you, growing up gay and Catholic in Alabama was not fun. Not to sound emo, but it was really hard and lonely. The first couple of girls I was ever with were just looking to experiment while my friends around me were having deep and meaningful relationships.

I love being Asian and gay and female. It’s interesting and humbling to see how my identities intersect. My experience as a person of color is something I would want a life partner to understand inherently, and thus, most of my past relationships have been with women of color. As a queer person, I’m thankful for the way LGBTQ+ activists who came before me paved the way, many of whom were black folx. As a result, I’ve spent a lot of time lately trying to unlearn anti-blackness, which I think  tends to be quite rampant in Asian communities. While race, gender, and sexuality are all nuanced issues and we shouldn’t be out here playing the Oppression Olympics, I am grateful for an identity that allows me to empathize deeply and cross-contextualize. I hope others find ways to do the same."
