---
layout: post
title:  "Erin"
date:   2017-12-26 14:45:09 -0500
image: "erin.png"
---

“I identify as a bisexual, 1st generation West Indian, more specifically Guyanese-American, cisgender female. Being Guyanese-American allows me to empathize with those who also identify as minorities and simultaneously, it often leaves me feeling isolated and alone in society.

I spent most of my early childhood in Orlando, Florida where, surprisingly, there were many West Indians and Guyanese communities. It wasn’t until my family moved to Naples that I began to realize I was different. I was the only “Indian” kid in my grade and, I believe, the school. When asked where I was from, the responses I received were often, “Do you mean Ghana?” and “What is that, like some kind of Indian?” Everyone called me Princess Jasmine. And while this might seem like a compliment, I wasn’t given this name because they thought I looked like Jasmine or because I actually reminded everyone of a Disney princess. It was because I had brown skin and hair down to my knees. It was the first time I really felt singled out. I looked in the mirror and hated everything that I saw. I wanted my skin to be white and I begged my mom for years to cut my hair. I tried so hard to conform when I wish I’d had the confidence to stand out.

Recently, I’ve become passionate about addressing issues with how both mental health issues and sexual abuse are handled in West Indian communities. These issues are often brushed under the rug and considered so taboo that conversations regarding them are quickly shut down to the detriment of both victims and those in need of support. While these issues may not be unique to my culture, it has brought to light how prevalent sexual abuse is and how it’s handled in the West Indian community, specifically. Much of the older Guyanese generation sees sexual abuse as part of the normal struggles of life. When it happens, victims are told “pick yourself up, make yourself stronger and move on” while victimizers are often never confronted and continue cycles of abuse due to the shame and stigma of sexual assault. But none of this is said out loud because that would mean acknowledging the acceptance of abuse. Many of my Guyanese-American peers and I have been personally affected by these attitudes within our communities. Despite this, perspectives are beginning to change in the younger generations. I find that many within my own generation refuse to perpetuate the complacency and stigma that accompanies sexual abuse. I take inspiration from this and will fight to give survivors a voice no matter the optics.

I want people to know that you don’t need to be a “hero” to affect real change. We build up this idea that we need a select few superhuman individuals to carry our banners for us. It’s so much easier to watch from afar hoping “heroes” will step in, I know. We’ve all been there, but standing up and speaking out is how we enact social change. It doesn’t take an expert or a professional. You’re enough. Attend one rally, call one senator, stand-up for the right thing even when it’s uncomfortable, do something, anything that lights a fire in you. At the end of the day, heroes are just decent people who decided to do to the right thing and we all have that capability within us.

My definition of the American dream is physically emulated by my mother’s life. She came to this country with an 8th grade level education, worked as a paralegal for many years, raised a family of 5 kids and now owns her own successful business. That being said, I think my mom is the minority. For most immigrants, the “American dream” will never be a reality. In a country that proclaimed, “all Men are created equal”, immigrant and ethnic American communities have fought uphill battles throughout the history of this country for access to the same opportunities available to other Americans. Our current political state shows not much has changed. It’s up to our generation and those that follow to make the American Dream a reality actually available to all Americans.

At 32, I thought I’d have it all figured out but I don’t. And for the first time, I’m okay with that. I fell passionately into public health because I care about people. I don’t know yet what I want to do specifically but I know that I want to spend my life advocating for underserved communities and those who can’t find their voice. I want to be politically involved in shaping policy that truly benefits the people. As idealistic as it sounds, I just want to make the world a better place.
