---
layout: post
title:  "Olivia"
date:   2017-12-26 14:45:09 -0500
image: "olivia.png"
---

Olivia is a Native New Yorker™, who gave me a long list of identifiers, including doula, caregiver, queer, Chinese-American, Asian-American, POC, non-binary, tomboy-femme, Scorpio.

"Navigating across my identities has always had me engaging more critically, analytically, carefully, and intentionally with people, institutions, systems, and even myself on a daily basis. I recognize that my identities not only affects the ways in which I may perceive the world, but can also limit or expand the way I may navigate the world depending on how my identity is seen, unseen, or manipulated in any particular context. This is a constant un/learning process and requires an active daily practice of resistance."

When asked about their earliest memories of when encountering racism, they recalled several moments in elementary school: "I used to have small to-go dried seaweed packets for snacktime and the other kids were like 'ew, are you an otter or something? seaweed!? gross!!!' and they would call me different sea animals. These kinds of reactions extended to other foods that were common in my home that I loved and that my mom would pack for me for school. The "Chinese people eat anything that moves" / "I hear you eat dog meat" phrases were common back then---and I still continue to encounter it today. At a certain point, I started begging my mom to pack me more "Americanized" lunches just to end the teasing. (Being allergic to peanut butter at the time where PB&J was a classic and soy-butter didn't exist, didn't help). Looking back, it's pretty/painfully ironic since dried seaweed now is sold en masse at Trader Joe’s, Whole Foods, and even Costco, "Asian-Marts" are all the craze, and there are millions of types of seaweed that everyone is chasing after these days. White-washing/capitalism often feigns diversity.”

Some social issues Olivia is passionate about include “QTBIPOC reproductive justice and family rights/protections that also include non-dyadic family structures, ATI/IVF and gamete cryobanking access/equity/insurance coverage, and abolition.”
