---
layout: post
title:  "Hector"
date:   2017-12-13 14:45:09 -0500
image: "hector.png"
---

Hector identifies as an undocumented, Latinx male.
“However,  if you really get to know me you'll find that I am an activist, public health advocate, aspiring physician, and a music enthusiast. My activist identity stems from my efforts in the immigrant rights movement specifically in sharing my story as an undocumented immigrant student. I am a public health advocate due to the fact that I am pursuing my MPH in order to gain the knowledge and skills necessary to reform healthcare practices and facilities serving immigrant communities. This is also tied to my aspiring physician identity since my dream is to be a doctor that practices in communities similar to the ones that I grew up in.

I was born in a small pueblo named San Pedro Apóstol in Oaxaca, Mexico. I lived there for about the first 3-4 months of my life before immigrating to the United States with my parents. I can't tell you much about the motherland due to the fact that I have not visited Mexico since leaving for the US during my infancy. I've always been curious on how life in Mexico really is but I am not able to leave the country due to my undocumented status. 

I grew up in a mostly Mexican immigrant community which goes to show why my immigrant and Latinx identities mean so much to me. As a child, I usually surrounded myself with people that had the same color as my skin, ate the same type of food, spoke the same Spanglish while also having similar beliefs, traditions, and values. Everyone that lived in my hometown knew each other and we were pretty much like a very large family. Everyone looked out for one another and supported one another during difficult times. I guess this instilled in me a sense of building community whenever I enter new spaces since this mindset has allowed my parents and myself to survive during times of heavy anti-migrant sentiment.  

I also think that my hometown always reminds me of where I come from and my own personal aspirations. There are many health disparities affecting the Coachella Valley including a lack of culturally competent physicians, high rates of uninsured Latinx families, and higher rates of chronic conditions such as diabetes and respiratory disease. I grew up in these conditions while also learning the difficulties and anxieties my own mother deals with when obtaining medications for her own health needs. This was something I knew I wanted to address when I discovered my passion for service and medicine in high school.

I think the aspect of my identity that really shapes me as a person on an everyday basis is my undocumented immigrant status. I guess this part of my identity has turned me into a hard worker and a fighter due to my parents and many of my close friends sharing the same status as me. My siblings are US citizens due to the fact that they were born in this country. I guess with my undocumented immigrant identity I have this mindset of "failure not being an option" since I want to show my siblings that virtually anything is possible with perseverance, community, love, hard work, ganas, and thick skin despite unfortunate circumstances. My parents are the embodiment of hard work since they absolutely give it their all in their occupations in order for my siblings and myself to have a good life. I guess they have the mindset that immigrants must work hard to succeed and this is something about the immigrant experience that shapes my life inside and outside of school.

I also believe that my undocumented identity drives me to be a fighter that is empathetic to other struggles that are outside of the undocumented community. Seriously, everytime I watch on the news or read something on the web about migrant children being detained, families being separated, or border patrol agents gunning down Guatemalan women....it angers me! I cry sometimes on how much my fellow immigrant brothers and sisters get persecuted and sometimes I feel there’s only so much I can do. However, with news like these I have discovered this fighter in me that participates in or lead actions in locations such as Trump Tower, the Capitol Hill, Senator Schumer's office, and the front of the Columbia Mailman Public Health School. I recognize I am very privileged in being the first in my family to graduate from a 4-year university and go to graduate school at an elite school such as Columbia. With this privilege, I guess I try to be a fighter for others that are not able to for a variety of circumstances. I also believe that any activist should be in solidarity with other communities since we are in the same fight and struggle. We are all trying to fight against all forms of racism and oppression. El pueblo unido jamás será vencido!

The first time I learned I was undocumented was actually when I was applying to college during my senior year of high school. I remember filling out the Common Application or something like that because I really wanted to go to Stanford at that time lol. Anyways, I get to the part where they ask for your social security number. Up until this point in my life, I never really needed to know what my social was since I figured that my parents would know and because I was never asked for it. I go and ask my dad what my social was and he begins to sort of dodge the question and begin asking me why I needed it. I explain that the system that processes college applications need it in order to be able to identify the application I will submit with my name. However after some exchanges he begins to reveal that I don't have one because I was never born here and I don't have "papeles" to begin with.

I knew that I was not born in the US but I guess I really did not know what it meant to be undocumented up until that point in my life. For most of my childhood, I was able to have a normal life and I lived in a neighborhood that did not have to deal with border patrol agents hanging out and flexing just for people to get scared or anxious. Once the news hit me, I was in shock for the rest of the day. I knew that my life would never be the same since that meant that I could not get any financial aid, no job, and not even a driver's license. Nothing. This eventually started a lot of internal issues within me that I sort of deal with till this day. I'll admit that I carry a lot of guilt and lack of self love at times due to my immigrant identity. However, I take time to take care of myself and remind myself that it's ok to feel what I feel. The journey to self love has not been easy and to a certain extent not fully complete. However, the journey has taught me a lot about myself and I am a stronger and more appreciative person now.

I guess what I want people to learn about my undocumented immigrant identity is that we are human beings with our own stories, struggles, passions, and forms of beauty. Seriously, so many undocumented immigrants are doing awesome things such as being in movies, starting non-profits, being educators, and overall being badasses. My community is filled with strong individuals that are beautiful and only want to make the world a better place. So I guess I would like people to see is that immigrants are not the so called criminals, social welfare feeders, or uneducated people that the current presidential office or media sometimes portrays us to be. We have potential for many things and I think people should really recognize that.”
