---
layout: post
title:  "Mekleet"
date:   2017-12-19 14:45:09 -0500
image: "mekleet.png"
---

Mekleet identifies as “a proud, black Ethiopian woman turned graduate student.

My parents are Ethiopian, but I was born in California and most recently moved from DC before moving to NYC. Before moving to DC, I lived in western Maryland.

I grew up in suburban Maryland, which was hard because it was not a very diverse town and I always felt like an outsider for as long as I can remember. Though I had a supporting and loving family, they could not shield me from the racism and prejudice my family and I faced. Add that with my constant struggle to reconcile my Ethiopian culture with American culture, and it only made me feel more like an outsider.

It took a long time for me to feel like I belonged anywhere, and at times I still feel that way but I learned to trust the process and keep being me no matter where I was or who my present company is.”

Her identity “lit a fire in me, and made me want to work twice as hard no matter the obstacle (emotional or institutional).  

I was 7 years old and was the only person of color in my 2nd grade class. I was also the only person not invited to one of my classmate's birthday party. When I asked her why, she said her parents did not like black people. I went home and cried to my mom and her exact words to me were "Forget her, never be ashamed of who you are".  Almost 20 years later, I still remember those words and I let them guide me whenever I'm feeling insecure or out-of-place.”

And her idea of the American dream is “to live well and be successful. It's not about the money, but what your purpose is and what gives you joy.”
