---
layout: post
title:  "Lalo"
date:   2017-12-07 14:45:09 -0500
image: "lalo.png"
---

“I moved to Hoover, AL when I was 4 years old. While there were other hispanic families around us, we were a minority. Growing up in Alabama, I did witness racism. I remember my parents were mistreated because of their broken English and accent. That made me think as a child that I must act and speak a certain way to be accepted around there. So I guess you could say I understood I was different, but in a sense tried to hide it.

I think it made me appear as quite and shy person growing up. I would approach people but would be anxious of what they thought of me. As I grew older I realized I can't change who I am and must love me for me. But on the other hand, it made me have tough skin towards people's ignorance. One thing that always bothered me when I was younger was people calling me Mexican just because I spoke Spanish. Like did they really not know there are like 20+ countries that speak Spanish as well?

My identity definitely makes me see the world with an open mind. I grew up with one culture from my parents but experienced another culture outside of home. It made me realized that I shouldn't really judge a culture I don't understand.

When I moved to Alabama, I started Kindergarten right away. I already knew some english but was fluent by the end of the school year. But for some reason, I was still assigned to go to ESL classes for most of elementary school. I remember not understanding why I was forced to go to ESL if I already knew the language and could clearly communicate with my peers.

I feel like people think they know about Immigration but in reality there is so much that people don't know. Being an immigrant, I understand why people risk everything coming here. There is this misconception by some people that immigrants are ruining our country, but all the ones I have met are working their hardest to make it here. Also, reuniting the families at the borders: Like fuck you if you separated them in the first place, and fuck ICE.

I was born with an ear deformity on my right ear called Microtia. Peru did not have the technology to try to fix it so that is one of the reasons my family moved to the States. I guess as I child I thought my American dream was to get my ear fixed. (I’m still having the surgeries till this day but thats tea for another day.)

As I grow older, I realized my parents' American dream was to see their children succeed in life (which would be like getting higher education, a good job, financially stable, etc..) I graduated from UAB this past December. I thought I had accomplish the American dream but I realized that wasn't my dream. After graduation, I found myself completely clueless with what I wanted to do in life. I still am. But for now, I am not worried about it. Through everything I have been in life, I have realized everything has a process. I'll eventually figure out where I am going. Just gonna enjoy the ride now. If I were to define my American Dream now, it would be to live my best and happiest life I can.

In some cases, people have looked at me differently because I am not from here. I have learned because of that, sometimes I have to work twice as hard as other just to get to half of their level.”  
