---
layout: post
title:  "Jessica"
date:   2017-12-02 14:45:09 -0500
image: "jessica.png"
---

Jessica was and still is THAT girl. Our first year in grad school, she sat at the front of every class, handwrote all her notes, and used this stand-thingy for her binder so her neck wouldn’t hurt. She is the most energetic person I’ve ever met in my life.

Jessica identifies as a heterosexual, East Asian, cis gender person. “It has allowed me to connect with those who have been ‘othered’ in society. It has given me the awareness to see when others may not feel as included in a situation as they should be. While my sexuality and gender align me with the majority, my ethnicity does not. This dual majority-minority ‘selves’ gives me the perspective to understand privilege and disadvantage at the same time. I am able to navigate the world being conscious of the privilege I have and those I may be unintentionally hurting.”

Jessica was first made aware of her identity “at a summer camp in Georgia when I was a young girl. I grew up in Asia and visited the U.S. during the summers. My grandparents lived in Savannah, GA. The deep South. The girls definitely othered me because I didn't know the same "American" songs/games as they did.”

As we finish our final year in our MPH program, Jessica says that afterward she hopes to “connect with people on the individual level to make them feel like they're valued. On the societal level, I want to study systems and understand how they may not be inclusive. This can give me the tools to create policies/other measures to make our systems more diverse. “We have to remember that deep human connection we all share beyond the surface level. Thomas Merton once said: We are bodies of broken bones. I guess I'd always known but never fully considered that being broken is what makes us human. We all have our reasons. Sometimes by things we would never have chosen. But our brokenness is also the source of our common humanity, the basis of our shared search for comfort, meaning, and healing. Our shared vulnerability and imperfection nurtures and sustains our capacity for compassion.”
