---
layout: post
title:  "Sammy"
date:   2017-12-12 14:45:09 -0500
image: "sammy1.png"
---

Sammy is a gay, Korean-American from Huntsville, Alabama.

“The South is the setting of my story. My first neighborhood was a small cul-de-sac in which I was the only Asian family around for miles. I was a fairly happy kid in those days. Growing up in the south, I knew that what happened over a course of a year was all wicked, but only after the fact a few years later and I was internally tormented by my “sins” which weren’t even mine.


These sins lead me to believe that I was gay, and that I was damned to hell—love Korean baptists. Coincidentally, I realized pretty soon in my elementary schools years that I was actually into boys. Regardless, I locked everything away and limbo pursued. I blacked everything out for a while in that time.


As the years passed, my defenses began to crumble little by little and got to the point of sheer exhaustion with holding up my facade. I made a clean break. I stopped being friends with toxic people. I started telling the few people I trusted my story—also piece by piece. Sometimes it backfired and other times I felt empowered. But I was transforming into someone I was not afraid to be anymore.
In the present, I’ve broken past the societal norms of the local culture. I couldn’t care less what these people think about me, and I’ve come to love and accept myself. I’ve broken out of limbo and I see world in color.

I used to walk with the lightest step, but now I stomp around and cause a huge fucking scene because I very well can. I navigate the way I want which is the path of truth. Through walking this path of truth, l think I will be lead to success for both myself and those around me. Granted, I think I could still be more unapologetic and truthful to myself but I am really working on it.

While it’s not as seemingly pressing or tangible as ecological conservation or helping an oppressed demographic, I think a very insidious issue we have as a rising generation is our complete apathy to risk. While it sounds kinda stupid and obvious, I think we are coming to a point as a group of individuals where change is necessary. For example, there are more cases of STIs than ever in history. All these people need to do is be safe, which I can say it’s much easier said than done. Drug use is also on an upward trend and young people are being affected at alarming rates. Ultimately I just ask that we as the young generation not just look at the big issues and try to make change there, but to also take care of ourselves and be proper advocates and participants of self care. You deserve it.


The American Dream is bullshit. Live your own dream, not this wack shit.”
