---
layout: post
title:  "Peyton"
date:   2017-12-24 14:45:09 -0500
image: "peyton.png"
---

Peyton is a bi-racial, gender non-binary,  pansexual, Filipino-American student; they were born in the Bay Area, California, but hopped to Hong Kong, Bangkok and now New York. “It shaped my understanding tremendously, as it now is beginning to come full circle here in New York. When I think of California, it reminds me of how split my cultural identity was as a child. I was code-switching between my white and Filipino side before I even knew what code-switching was. Hong Kong was the beginning of my understanding between different social classes, that was then finalised in Bangkok. Bangkok was my home for the bulk of my developmental years and was also the place that I attended the same school for the longest number of years (5 consecutive years). This is largely where I learned about respecting ethnicities and cultures, different socioeconomic classes, where I learned my leadership skills and honed my interests. A lot of that got thrown out the window when I got to New York (not entirely, but definitely an alarming amount). New York is one of the toughest places I've lived, but I wouldn't choose to live anywhere else—right now. It's helping me become more socially aware and helped explore aspects of my identity that I pushed away, living in a more conservative South-East Asian environment.

I think my identity has made me angry, which surprises me when I think about it too much. For a long time my identity conformed to those around me, and sometimes it still does. But I've worked really hard, and continue to work hard on, making my identity truly my own. My racial identity has really come into formation since arriving in New York, despite getting farther away from the Philippines. I feel rooted here in ways that I've never felt before. This is the 10th school I've attended, so I've found that it is easy for me to attach quickly but those connections tend to be somewhat fragile as I know it's fleeting. My different identities affect the way I communicate. I am very open and try to be honest. I am hot-headed and dramatic, though often quiet before you get to know me. I am still learning more about my identity, more about how I best communicate so with all this growing and shifting, my consistency is depleting and I am still coming to terms with that.

I think I see things differently from someone who identifies with a single race/culture. Often times I don't consider myself American because there are so many aspects of American culture that I can't connect, mainly because I never got the chance to grow up here. I think I can be more open to things like different cultures and different identities, but often have a hard time accepting those who are more conservative and try to force that onto other people. I grew up in communities where everyone was accepted because everyone came from different cultures, but that was the extent of the diversity. No economic, sexuality, social diversity. In New York, you really can't escape that so I've learned to be as accepting as I possibly can, but still can't understand why some people deem it their civic duty to force their way of life onto others.

I cut off all my hair right before my sophomore year of high school. People began looking at me differently, assuming things about myself I had not even thought about. I put myself out there by doing something most 15 year old girls (at the time I could see myself as female) wouldn't do and that is cutting off the thing that, arguably, makes them feel most feminine. I remember being at a volleyball camp at UC Santa Cruz and being the only one there with short hair. It made me question my femininity (though I didn't realise it at the time), it forced me to shove my questions of sexuality down deep deep inside because I hated that people got to assume things about myself that I didn't know. I wanted to prove them all wrong by forcing straight-ness onto myself and onto others.

I used to love acting and singing—so much so that I auditioned to be Annie on Broadway while living in Hong Kong. I took my headshot on Photo Booth on my Macbook. ANYWAY, since having the ability to see shows in New York, rarely do I see Asians on stage outside of Miss Saigon. I loved Miss Saigon, though hated admitting it because it meant I supported certain archetypes of Asian women. But at the same time, it offered a place for Asians on stage. In a show about the Vietnam War, nearly all the lead roles were given to actors of Filipino descent—which I LOVED, but that didn't make it right. My point is, having diversity in your show does not simply mean casting a few African-Americans and calling it a day. Asians are POC too.

I didn't talk about this much in my previous answers, but something that people could be more understanding of is the difference between ____-American and being bi-racial. I didn't grow up in a home where there was a single culture I could rely on and feel connected to. I always felt like there was something missing whenever I was with either side of my family. I was never Asian enough for my Filipino side, but not white enough for my white side.

I don't have one. I think my equivalent would be getting out of America now and being successful abroad (it feels obnoxiously privileged to say that, but I really do find myself much more comfortable living in Asia)

I largely feel obstacles due to my bi-racialness. I definitely feel othered by white people because I do identify more strongly with my Filipino side currently. But I also feel othered by fellow POC because I can sometimes receive white privilege. Sometimes I feel that it is not something I can be allowed to complain about—having privilege. But it is something that I struggle with because I feel like I'm being pulled in opposite directions sometimes, or as though I'm not valid because I am only two halves, not one whole.
