---
layout: post
title:  "Anjile"
date:   2017-12-15 14:45:09 -0500
image: "Anjile.png"
---

Anjile identifies as Chinese-Mongolian Canadian.

“It still amazes me when I talk to other immigrant children and we recognize parts of our upbringing in each other's stories. It was something I was proud of, especially since my parents chose to move across the world for me to have opportunities that they could've never dreamed of in education and most importantly, in the ability to choose for myself. I don't think I truly understood my identity until I moved to the US for college, where people didn't accept 'Canada’ as the answer for the place from which I'm from, or when strangers would come up to me and try to guess my ethnicity. Having to constantly spell it out made me aware that what I considered my identity was sometimes not what others considered to be my identity.

My name is what grounds me — even though it has three very different written versions, "Anjile" sounds the same in English, Chinese, and Mongolian. No matter the language I'm addressed, I always feel like I can keep bits of the other parts of my identity with me.

My identity has taught me to codeswitch constantly between talking to my family, different groups of friends, classmates, strangers, and everyone in between. I grew up translating the world — literally and culturally — for my parents, so I always choose my language carefully.

I've been made aware of my identity as Asian and as an immigrant almost every day, but the most vivid moment of being othered was my first time filling out tax forms in the United States — being referred to as an alien was so jarring in its implication that I'm not even human because I'm not a US citizen or national.

I'm really interested in how urban design and the built environment affect health, especially among communities of colour. Things that we often take for granted like access to public transportation, housing policies, noise and light pollution, and access to healthy food are all part of what determines health and are disproportionately dispersed throughout cities and urban areas. If you love cities, advocate to make them more healthy for all those living there.”
