---
layout: post
title:  "Nicole"
date:   2017-12-09 14:45:09 -0500
image: "nicole.png"
---

Nicole was born in Louisiana and raised in Alabama, but she’s originally from the Dominican Republic.

“I didn't fit in my white and black traditional southern town and I didn't understand why. Until I started visiting Dominican Republic and hanging with other Latinas was when I realized how Dominican my personality was and taught me to love it and myself even more because that was what made me me.”

It made me more understanding of how one's culture can influence their views and characteristics. It also made me less judgmental because I understood everyone is culturally different and that’s what makes them unique. I understand that i like certain things because of how I was raised and that certain people like me because of that. I also know my place and know how certain people will view me which in turned taught me to stop giving a fuck and do me.

Nicole was first made aware of her identity “when a boy in class told me to swim back to Mexico in junior high and he went unpunished, but I was given detention for saying something. Also sitting alone in the bathroom for lunch because no one wanted to sit with you in high school did that as well.”

One social issue that’s important to her is “racism in the south as well as towards immigrants in this country. My family and my identity is embedded in that and it was something that was a constant challenge growing up. When racism is so prominent, so many opportunities are almost hidden from you and you don't realize what your full potential can be when no one is accepting of you or reaching out to you the way the most accepted race is.”

“I want people to learn that it doesn't matter where you come from or what ethnicity you are or your circumstance. As long as you are driven and you are your own role model you can find your own opportunities create a new path in your life even when you think you are bound by the color of your skin or what you look like.”

Nicole’s version of the American dream is “being able to do what you want, with who you want, when you want and making it a success while accepting all others choosing to do the same thing. I just want to be happy, make memories that make me laugh and cry, make a difference, and pursue my passion with enough success to pay my rent, travel a bit, and spoil my family and friends with no regrets.”
