---
layout: post
title:  "Bryce"
date:   2017-12-14 14:45:09 -0500
image: "bryce.png"
---

“I grew up in Los Angeles and went to schools that were passably diverse. I don't think I've ever overtly been made to feel excluded because of my race/ethnicity, but I rejected it for a long time. My middle school had like two cool Asians (of which I was definitely not one) so to me, being Asian was synonymous with what I knew - hanging out with the few other Asians and drawing anime behind one of the classrooms during lunch. In high school I met biracial people and I think that gave me more pause about this "American only" identity I had been subconsciously trying to cultivate.

I have a very distinct memory of when I recognized how pervasive and dominant whiteness is. My biracial friend then told me that when she writes for a character in the first person, it's easiest to write from the perspective of a young, straight, white guy. She explained how most books in our English curriculum were written from that perspective. I couldn't forget that when I sat down to write. Did I think white? Did I imagine only white people when I read books? This is essentially the concept of being a white-washed ethnic person, but what's truly fucked is that I didn't think I was qualified to write from the perspective of an Asian-American girl. I recognized you could be a white guy and have an individual experience but I couldn't quite grasp that a character who is an Asian female doesn't have to represent the entire population of Asian females.

I'm increasingly agitated by the attitude towards mental illness that exists in US higher education (and probably internationally too). It's still dismissed more than it should be, but now there's this weird layer of dismissal by students where having poor mental health is viewed like a badge of honor. The memes are funny and it might be destigmatizing disorders like depression and anxiety, but the discussion is not proactive.”
