---
layout: post
title:  "Ridhi"
date:   2017-12-11 14:45:09 -0500
image: "ridhi2.png"
---

I grew up in a bustling immigrant community in Queens made up of other asian immigrant families from lower socio-economic statuses. For the first six years of my life, I had an extremely limited to no understanding of racial and economic division. All of my friends were people of color and all of their families were struggling financially. We held each other up in those years and shared so many burdens that the burdens themselves were negligible. The community in Flushing served to celebrate the traditions and cultures of its constituents. My most vivid memories of my childhood are of visiting other families' homes in my apartment complex to eat some of the indian food the other mothers had made. I grew up speaking Gujarati as my first language and eating the food given to me by an assortment of indian mothers, all with their own predilections for certain spices. Because of this, I still identify strongly with and remain tethered to my Indian heritage.

As a first generation student and indian woman with immigrant parents, the fear of mediocrity and prescribing to a gender role has always motivated much of how I live my life. My parents are supportive, loving individuals and have scarcely pushed me to take a professional or academic step that I myself have not been comfortable with. However, and I believe this applies to almost all children of immigrant parents, there has always been an underlying uncertainty of my own intelligence, work ethic, successes, etc... Finding a balance between fulfilling my expectations of myself and those put on me by loved ones has shaped much of my behavior and endeavors. This applies to the roles I play as a daughter, sister, friend, student, employee, romantic partner, and overall woman.

I am not religious but I do believe that I will always be a spiritual person because of my identity and how I have been raised. I consistently strive to strike a balance between the energies I take in and send out into my relationships and the ones that are in conflict within myself. I still struggle to reach a happy medium where I can represent all of my intersecting identities unabashedly and still retain the confidence and acceptance of my friends and family. However, this struggle has also given me the incredible ability to connect with and attempt to understand the myriad layers of human emotions. Because of the imbalances at times, I find myself questioning how to deliver meaning to the world and decide what it is that I want and need and must do, which has been kind of thrilling.

I was first made aware of my identity when I was called out for eating the lunch my mom had packed for me in elementary school in New Jersey. Being vegetarian at that time, let alone bringing food that smelled and looked different, was incredibly alienating and I spent most of my years in school questioning how "indian" I wanted to be and convincing my mom to pack me PB&J sandwiches. Most of my peers in elementary school looked nothing like me. However, when I visited India, I was "othered" for being an indian american and not viewed as "authentically indian" enough. Being born in America seemed to have suddenly invalidated the childhood I had experienced, full of indian languages, foods, cultural practices, holidays, clothing, and more. There is a dichotomy that exists between the indian community in that regard, and while understandable, made it difficult for me to understand what my ethnicity truly was. Did I have enough indian friends or did I have too many? Was I being "too indian" if I wore a kurti to school or ate that lunch? It’s a touch isolating and complicated way to be in the world as a little kid. But that’s the deal too. Sometimes finding an all encompassing identity isn't easy, its the easy way out of what could become and did become a really moving and empowering journey.

As a nursing and global public health student and woman, equal access to safe, affordable, and nondiscriminatory health care is really important to me. However, this issue is even more severe in indigenous communities all over the world. The lack of infrastructure, education, economic opportunities, and respect for land and cultural rights for indigenous people has led to a devastating impact on their understanding of and access to quality health care. Because of this, entire languages, cultures, and communities, many of which haven't been historically recorded, that have existed for centuries, are being brutally wiped out by HIV/AIDS, treatable infectious diseases, preventable chronic diseases, severe poverty, nonexistent reproductive health care, and more.

Maybe just that it’s human to be weighed down sometimes and its important to live with a sense of surrender. Just be willing to embrace everything and find the little things that keep you happy and going and unapologetically you, whether that be stories, art, music, nature, solitude, conversations, or the kindness of strangers. Especially in New York City which is a mini global society. To succeed you have to love who you are—physically, mentally, spiritually, and emotionally—and love where you come from. Embracing your truth leads to success, at least for me it has so far, though I am still working on it and probably will be forever. 

To get to the place in your life where you can understand and empathize with the struggles and resilience of others and never forget the frugal and rudimentary ways of working but still be able to look forward to a life where you can indulge in creating enough ease in life to pause and self care and give back to benefit those less privileged than you.
