---
layout: post
title:  "Miguel"
date:   2017-12-04 14:45:09 -0500
image: "miguel.png"
---
Miguel and I are both Filipinos from Alabama living in New York, and shoutout to @krisyamada for introducing us.

He was first made aware of his identity as a Filipino American when “My grandmother told me to forget my language because America wouldn't be kind to a non-English speaker. In school, I didn't fit in with the white kids or black kids. And in a way, being Filipino, I didn't even fit in with the other Asians as well in my younger years. I had my Filipino community--my barkada--to help in the earlier years of living in America. Later on, I felt as women weren't attracted to me because of my race and my height.”

Miguel writes and raps. “I write music. I moved to New York to song write, direct, rap, and other forms of visual and audio media. I use my experiences to help create my lyrics. I've been in the world of performing all of my life. My mom is a Broadway actress and she toured globally. So I was able to experience being Filipino in the Philippines, in Germany, and in the States. Specifically, I was raised in Huntsville, Alabama. And growing up Filipino and short... Well, let's say it was an interesting experience. Because I was such a minority, people saw me as more of a sidekick rather than a main character type. And that's more than just performance; it honestly felt like that growing up. I started writing music back in 2005 in the fifth grade.”

I also asked what it’s like to be a Filipino in the rap scene, considering the conversation about Bruno Mars being accused of cultural appropriation and that white “k-pop” band going around (Miguel is also an avid K-pop listener). “The way I see Bruno, I see him using his influences to create great music. KPop and other Asian music also has rap and hip-hop influences, but it's made their own. However, it's not a one sided debate. I can look at an artist like Post Malone and truly see the appropriation of culture. The way I view it for myself is that hip-hop and genre bending is the best way for me to tell my story. Case in point, Lin-Manuel Miranda's Hamilton. If I can make something real and something earnest, and most importantly something that's an extension of myself--then I know I'm in the right direction. I do struggle with not being "hard" enough in the rap scene; but I can prove myself by producing quality music.”

Miguel is a performer in New York City and you can find him at @mtlano!
