---
layout: post
title:  "Enrique"
date:   2017-12-06 14:45:09 -0500
image: "enrique.png"
---

I met Enrique a whopping 5 years ago when we both joined a Model United Nations-themed cult. He’s a Mexican-American straight guy, and he specifically wanted me to point out that he’s a “recent graduate working in finance.”

He grew up only with his mom in a small apartment (humble means) in a wealthy, white, Jewish community. “I grew up relatively lower class financially compared to many of my friends and surrounding neighbors. It reminded me both of what I did have and what I didn't have. Whether that was physical things or others, there were always things I was definitely envious of. I think I've had enough time and self-reflection to know that I was a bit bitter about my situation.”

“That being said, it also helped me understand what I wanted. I grew up with a mexican family but most of my friends were white and I was able to see the pros and cons of both cultures and I feel like now as an adult, I've taken from both cultures to shape my identity and what I want with my future. Let me tell you one thing though, white people yell at their parents way more than any other ethnicity, it's insane!”

“ Sometimes I think that growing up with mainly my mom affected me more than my race/ethnicity/nationality. For example, people love Thanksgiving. It bring everyone together for a joyous celebration, lots to be grateful for, and overall a wonderful time. For the longest time, I hated thanksgiving because it was a reminder of the one of the few things in life that I never felt like I had - a family. And perhaps the most unfortunate part about that is that nothing could really change that. Was I bitter? 100%. Am I a little bitter now, even in the future? To be honest, yeah, a little bit. It's helped me be appreciate of what I do have and it's helped me prioritize what I want in the future.”

“ I feel I never know what kind of perspective or lens to use when looking at the world. I'm a brown mexican kid dating a blonde haired white girl lol. I sometimes make fun of mexicans for always carrying jalapenos in their bags or pockets to eat with their meals when they are out. That being said, I'm the first one at the table asking for cholula hot sauce. Or today, I was at trader joe's laughing at myself, thinking white people lol, because all the kombucha except the cayennade (the spicy one) was taken...I then proceeded to put 3 kombucha's in my basket. I don't know, I feel like this is such a hard question for me because I think I just try to do my best and go with the flow.”

When I asked him about when he first was made aware of his identity, he said “Thanksgiving. Every year growing up when people would ask me what I would be doing. 10/10 the worst question. 10/10 don't ever ask me that.”

“If you know me well, you'll know I'm not a social justice warrior. It's not high on my list of priorities to be honest. I don't protest. Actually, I protest the protest out of spite to the original protestors. What's important to me though is the path to citizenship. It's a very difficult process, no wonder you see sham marriages for green cards, etc. My father is a citizen. My mother is not. Do you know how many vacations I've gone on with my mom? One when I was 8 years old (or so, I don't remember). She had to cross the border to get back into the States. She's scared of flying within the United States because she has a fear of being sent to Mexico. Luckily, I'm in a position where I've been able to help and expedite the entire process. Others, not just hispanics, are not so lucky.”

“By no means do I think my life is perfect. I also don't think it's bad either. I'm fortunate to be in the place that I am because it could always be worse. I suppose what I will say is that everyone is fighting their own battle and that's ok. I may not feel like I have a family which brings challenges of its own. People who do have families have a set of problems which I have no awareness of. The same goes for people rich or poor, social status, ethnicities, etc. Be humble, be grateful, everyone is just trying to do their best in a world that sometimes, unfairly so, expects perfection.”
