---
layout: post
title:  "Hebani"
date:   2017-12-27 14:45:09 -0500
image: "hebani.png"
---

I'm an Indian female in her early 20s working and living in New York. I was born in Bombay, and moved to the US when I was about 7.

I grew up all over the place. The question of where I grew up has always been a tough one to answer. I was born in Bombay, but lived in Singapore for a year and then Japan for 3 years before moving to Connecticut (of all places). My family then moved to Texas after I graduated high school, and I've never had a true sense of where home really is.

I've always struggled with where I fit in. Who am I without one place or ethnicity or culture defining my identity? Caught between wanting to blend in with the kids around me, but understanding that that will never truly happen because I don't look the same or talk the same or think the same makes for a tough childhood, especially with parents struggling with their own worlds. A childhood I felt like I never fit into has made me accepting of the others around me as an adult. I never felt like I belonged anywhere, and if I can make even one person in a group feel like they can relate to the people around them, the world makes for a much less lonely place.

Lunchtime during third grade. Turns out pb&j sandwiches and daal roti don't look the same, and third grade Heb doesn't understand why her lunch from home is catching stares from the other end of the table when frankly putting melted marshmallows on peanut butter and jelly is much stranger than spicy lentils.

I don't think people can learn as much from anyone's experience as they could from their own. Looking inwards to your interactions means you can find ways in which your own experience can mirror that of the people around you. I don't want you to take away anything from my story because I think you'll do more if, instead of considering my story as one of an outsider, you found a way to relate to it. If you see yourself in someone else's story, you'll stand up for them the next time their rights are at risk, they're up for a job among a pool of applicants that looks very different than they do, they're applying for a loan with less financial history than someone whose family has been in the country for generations. We don't need people to learn from other people's stories; we need people to consider these stories as their own and fight for them as such.

Honestly, I've never really understood [the American Dream’s] significance - which is not to say it doesn't hold any for many people. I've seen the American dream through my parents' eyes, and to them, I believe it meant the chance for them to create a future in which hard work would determine outcomes, for themselves and for their children. I don't agree, mainly because I've seen too many instances of institutional disadvantages that impact outcomes and have nothing to do with hard work, but I am also privileged enough to recognize that when my parents did not have the same luxury. This question of what the American dream is and what it means to immigrants, at least for me, is a question that is more telling when posed to those from my parents' generation than mine.

Being a woman of color has never been something I have considered as an obstacle in itself, even though its implications in everyday instances definitely bring to light how my identity sets me apart from the people around me. What always gets me is not so much the bigger obstacles we face as women of color (representation in movies/tv shows anyone??), but the small everyday stuff that makes me feel more dejected. For example, anecdotes in professional settings are really tough when no one around you was at a sangeet last weekend with a Yuleman's ice cream truck. No one even knows what a sangeet is. So now I have to talk about living in a fifth-floor walk-up in NYC because everyone can relate to that even though what I really want to talk about is how tough it is to enjoy ice cream at a sangeet with mehndi on your hands. One person knows how mehndi works. And now you're explaining the significance of mehndi at weddings and quickly changing the topic back to fifth-floor walk-ups so the conversation isn't just about you. And you feel alone. Because who do you talk to about what you want to talk about that aren't your women of color friends and family? And why can't you talk about it at work just as someone would about a barbecue or a baby shower?
