---
layout: post
title:  "Vivian"
date:   2017-12-22 14:45:09 -0500
image: "vivian.png"
---

Vivian is a Taiwanese-American from San Francisco, California, now based in New York.

“My identity has shaped me to be humble and practical in all of my everyday life. While I'm grateful for everything my parents taught me, I’ve realized over time that what I’ve been taught sometimes doesn’t necessarily apply to how I actually want to live my life.”  

The first time Vivian was othered was “with the food my mother packed me for lunch! Who eats pig blood and intestines at school? Second-generation people like me have a unique relationship with our parents because there's a constant generational and cultural disconnect. It wasn’t just the food, either. It was how I was treated at home; my parents expected me to almost worship them, while teachers at school had almost an equalized relationship with me because they respected my individuality.  Growing up, it was hard realizing what happens at school didn’t parallel with personal life at home, and vice versa.

I just want people to know that we're more than just "nerds" who are smart. Not every Asian is education-inclined, and that not all of us play an instrument. Not all Asian girls are “obedient,” “shy,” and “docile.” There are Asians in this world who want to pursue dreams outside these stereotypes, and it's important to recognize that when they are noticed for it.

My idea of the American Dream is being fully accepted for just being who I am. And I’ll tell you who I am.

I’m a young, Taiwanese-American woman working remotely in New York City. I grew up with a strong classical piano background with dual interest in art and communications. I absolutely hate math. I can’t remember my SAT scores because they were so terribly low. I dislike being told what to do and value my freedom of choice in life. I’m not exactly skinny like most Asian girls, but I’m not obese either. I watch British comedy shows while cooking Asian or Italian food at home. I wine regularly on weekends. I love eating, but I hardly Instagram my food because I’d rather enjoy the present. I am an inspiring minimalist and an advocate for gender equality. I am Vivian Wang.
