---
layout: post
title:  "Monica"
date:   2017-12-29 14:45:09 -0500
image: "monica.png"
---

Monica is from Seattle, Washington and originating from parents who immigrated from China/HK (father= China to HK to Honolulu, HI and mother= HK to Talladega, AL).

“I grew up in Sammamish, WA aka a very white suburban town. At the time, the area was around 90-95% White and I didn't fully understand that I was ethnically different until I was in 2nd grade (as a result of the first micro-aggression that I can clearly remember). Living in this area complicated my journey to answering the question "what does it mean to be Asian American and specifically Chinese-American". When I lived in the town, I tried to answer this privately by separating out my "otherness" versus my "outside-normal" life (aka White-passing life).

It wasn't until I left the area for college that I was able to explore that question more publicly and diving deep into identity politics/formalizing my understanding of racial identity. Throughout that time and in my professional life, I've tried to explore the broader experience of communities of color and how my AsAm identity must be constantly negotiated.

Moving from the West coast to the East coast has also shifted my perspective of my identity because of the shift in community, culture of understanding about various communities of color, and the history of various identities interacting with one another.

As someone who passes as a person of color, and who is likely to be identified as a light-skinned East Asian woman, I'm constantly thinking about, negotiating with, and adapting to how I navigate the world. My most salient identity can't be hidden, so it's at the forefront of my lived experience. Because of this, my identity has shifted the way I think about myself, how I evaluate my actions, and who I hope to be in the future.

Trying to understand my identity will be a lifelong process to shape, define, and redefine who I am. I feel like I'm constantly evaluating who I am and how I hold my identities together. This impacts how I function in the world and the values that I believe in. Going through this exploratory process of understanding my identity, I've learned more compassion and empathy for others and established more guiding principles/values.

I was in second grade and a white boy came up to me making the stereotypical "Asian" eyes by pulling out the corner of his eyes. He sang a racist song about Chinese people and called me a chink.

I feel like folks are semi-aware of this issue, but I'm particularly interested in inequities in political representation-- how it's determined (ie. data systems are built for white cis-folks) and the impacts of underrepresentation

That light-skinned East Asian folks are constantly negotiating our relationship to Whiteness. Light-skinned East Asian folks need to be more vigilant in challenging our privilege and combating anti-blackness within our community, and at the same time there needs to be an acknowledgement of how the AsAm experience is also within the narrative of broader communities of color. Playing oppression olympics only serves those in power and doesn't benefit those who are oppressed. A more holistic understanding of how power, privilege, and oppression runs throughout (and between) communities of color needs to be addressed.”
