---
layout: post
title:  "Paula"
date:   2017-12-03 14:45:09 -0500
image: "paula.png"
---
The first impression I got from @xoxopaula is that describing her as a “hard worker” doesn’t cut it: she’s a hustler. But before moving to NYC and running a blog with over 40,000 followers, her parents raised her on a “very tiny island in the middle of the Pacific Ocean that you’ve probably never heard of.”

Paula identifies as Pacific Islander and moved to the United States from Saipan in the 8th grade. “I was automatically placed in all remedial classes because they assumed coming from an island, I wouldn’t be intellectually advanced. I asked to be placed in higher-level classes, but they told me that wasn’t a possibility because the classes and curriculum and my island weren’t up to par with those of the ones here in the U.S. Despite the fact that I consistently performed significantly better and got more perfect scores than any other student in my class, I did not get the chance to move on to higher-level classes simply because I was from the islands.”

What’s interesting about the concept of the American Dream™ is that it differs from person to person. For Paula, it means not working a normal 9-5 for the rest of her life. “After I graduate, I hope to work as an intensive care unit nurse for a couple years, possibly even become a travel nurse. After I get a couple years of experience, I want to work with Doctors Without Borders in a third world country, preferably Spanish-speaking. Eventually, I want to go back to my island build a bigger hospital to sustain the island’s needs, especially because right now our hospital is falling apart and is extremely outdated and doesn’t exactly serve the people to the best it can.”

Her identity “developed me into a much stronger person than I ever would have been in any other identity.  Growing up I had to try 10 times harder to prove myself to people because of where I came from. I was always dubbed foreign or incompetent the moment someone found out I was from a small island. Every single stereotype about living in island that you could think of, I have heard it.  Classmates, friends, even from professionals like my teachers.”

She hopes that what other people learn from her story is to “Never let what people’s preconceived notions of you dictate how you perform or how successful you can be in the future. Going through that when I was 13 could’ve easily hindered me from ever trying ever again for the rest of my life, but I didn’t want it. I knew that just because some people failed to see that my upbringing had nothing to do with how well I could perform academically, didn’t mean that that was how people were going to view me for the rest my life.”  
