---
layout: post
title:  "Ankit"
date:   2017-12-17 14:45:09 -0500
image: "Ankit.png"
---

Ankit is a “Indian-American-Canadian male student.

I was born in Michigan, lived in India for a few years as a young child (under 5) and from ages 6-18 lived in Canada. Then went to undergrad at The University of Michigan and have now been living in New York for a little over a year.

Although I was born in Michigan I spent very little time living there as my family moved back to India just a few months after my birth. Living in India for the first few years of my life I grew up learning both Hindi and English as languages. At age 5 my family moved to Canada in a city called Windsor where I spent the majority of my childhood. Moving to a new city where my parents knew nobody, the very first people we met were at the Hindu temple close to our house. My parents did not want my brother and I to lose touch with our culture or forget how to speak Hindi so my mom offered to teach Hindi classes to children on Sundays after prayer and helped organize cultural programs with the temple for everyone to celebrate various Hindu holidays. This shaped my understanding of my ethnic identity because even though I have no memory of living in India I grew up being aware of our cultures and values. In school there were children of many different ethnic backgrounds so there was never a moment I felt like I was physically different than others.

My nationality is an identity that affects the way I navigate this world. I am grateful now more than ever to have been born in the United States. This isn't an I love America, bald eagles, burgers and beers rant (cause damn America hella problematic right now and also I'm not even that patriotic), but what I mean is that simply having an American passport has given me so much opportunity that I am continuing to understand the value of day by day. Having two passports both American and Canadian has allowed me to go through so many bureaucratic type situations with ease. Understanding that I hold privileges that I did not earn helps me gain perspective and ultimately motivates me to make sure that the sacrifices my family has made in order for me to have these privileges, becomes worth it. When my parents moved from India to Canada they left their established careers and families to a country where they knew nobody. A country in which both of their Master's degrees and years of work experience meant next to nothing to the people there. I simply cannot imagine what that is like and the obstacles my parents had to face throughout those years. So my primary goal now and forever is to gain as much understanding as I possibly can in regard to what my parents define as "being successful" and then to do everything I can, to reach it.

The languages I speak have made me the most aware of my identity. I would say that I can fluently speak, read and write in both Hindi and English. However, I am not perfect in either. The first time I felt of this was when I was called out on it. In a casual conversation with friends in elementary school I used the word "beginning" (don't remember the context) but apparently I had such a heavy Indian accent when saying that particular word that someone felt the need to point it out and ridicule me for it. I played it off then but I whenever I recall this incident it makes me aware of my identity as a bilingual child of immigrants. To this day I avoid using that word whenever possible because I do not want to feel embarrassed for having an accent no matter how minor. When I go to India I'm told I speak Hindi with and American accent and in America I am told that I speak English with an Indian accent. The accent police really is a global position, they really out here.  

Lastly, when reflecting on my identities listed at the start of this post I realize that simply being an American born, straight, able-bodied male already gives me immense privilege in society. Being a person of color is really the only identity I possess which makes me a minority. What I have learned from this is that there are people who share the same identities as me but have been targets of more severe forms of stereotyping, racism and prejudice. There are people who are minorities in many more ways than one, who constantly have to fight to have the same basic rights as others. Moving forward, these inequities need to be addressed and in today's society we cannot afford to turn a blind eye to corruption and to injustice.
