---
layout: post
title:  "Ruthie"
date:   2017-12-23 14:45:09 -0500
image: "ruthie.png"
---

Ruthie is a first-generation Filipino-American actress, born & raised in the suburbs of New Jersey.

“I grew up in a rather large suburb of New Jersey next to a college town, & was exposed to all different walks of life & all different kinds of people. It taught me to be very open to new ideas & different people. I also grew up with my parent's prayer group that immigrated from the Philippines, & was exposed to a tight knit Filipino community that was full of love & pride. It taught me about my values & my culture. I learned how to do both of those things in those separate worlds very fully, however those worlds barely collided. I grew up separating my culture from my school, & my family from my social life. It wasn't until college, when I joined the Filipino organization at my school, that I was able to bring both worlds together. It was until I was able to shamelessly bring my culture into my art & allow it to take over all aspects of my life that I realized who it is I wanted to be.

I attribute all of the things that make me, ‘me’, to being Filipino. Filipinos are compassionate, warm, hospitable, as well as strong, resilient, & proud. These are all attributes that I consider strong parts of my personality.

As a person of color in the entertainment industry, I knew that I walked into rooms with certain expectations about who I could be, who they wanted me to be, & who I can't be. I knew that I would be labeled & categorized as soon as I walked into a room, & I hated that idea. Because of that, I decided to work my way around the system, & be who I wanted to be as opposed to who I was expected to be. I learned to put my eggs in no one else's basket except my own, & the bar was immediately raised. I grew ambitious & never settled for anything less than the best. I worked hard to let the people around me know that I was a force to be reckoned with, rather than ignored. I always felt, & still do feel, that I have to prove myself in every aspect of my career & my life, & if I were to go after my dreams, I better commit. I learned that in order to follow my dreams I need to surround myself with people who believe in me & will help build me up as opposed to tear me down.

I was always very aware & proud of my identity, but growing up it was always in a sort of bubble. I do remember when that bubble was popped. I was in rehearsals for the first show I got to marry my passion for culture & art together, entitled "Lola". Our director had us do an exercise where we say words that we associate with being Filipino. I used words such as "proud" & "warmth". My peers, who were all half Filipino, used words such as ‘shame’ & ‘confusion.’ It was in that moment that I realized that my Filipino identity was a lot more complex than I had thought. It blew my mind that being brown was something that people were ashamed of, that our food was too embarrassing to eat in public. Immediately humbled by that fact, I promised myself that I would never shame anyone for their culture, & try to foster a sense of pride in the people I surround myself with.

I don't even want to call it Feminism -- too many people have too many connotations about that word that may or may not be correct. But I have always grown up with the understanding that women need to be respected. My mother was the glue that held our family together, & my father did nothing but make sure that she was well taken care of & unconditionally loved. In Filipino culture, the matriarchs are the ones who hold the world together, & women are always revered. It blows my mind that this idea is even in question. Women are not objects that men can just claim or use. We are humans & deserve to be treated as such. Why a woman's perspective & ideas are even questioned is absurd to me. This country needs to take care of its women & lift them up instead of putting them down. They need to listen to our voice. If they don't, "hell hath no fury like a woman scorned".

While being independent & doing things on your own is great, it is literally impossible without other people. Find your tribe whether it be your cultural community, your work community, your sex community, wherever -- find the people who love & support YOU unconditionally. They will be the ones to pick you up when you're about to give up & who will take care of you when you're knocked down.

My definition of the American dream is quite cheesy, but it's being able to pursue whatever dream is fulfilling to you. It's to figure out what it is you were born to do & who you were born to be freely, with love, & compassion.

The way our society works right now, people of color have to work twice as hard just to get half the recognition that white people get. I feel pressured to be "successful" as a POC artist, just because of the mere fact that I am not white in the entertainment industry. If I am not "successful", then I am just another POC artist trying to make it & failing. Now obviously that is extreme, but I know it is a reality that many of us face. Thankfully, the game is changing, but that means that we have to work even harder to stand out amongst the crowd.

There is a community out there for you if you are looking for one! For more cultural content & art from some local & some not POC's check us out at thisisakin.com & @thisisakinnyc!! Come create with us, we'd love to have you.”
