---
layout: post
title:  "Abby"
date:   2017-12-08 14:45:09 -0500
image: "abby1.png"
---

Being an Indian girl I’ve only recently learned to speak up and demand what I deserve. For so long I had internalized myself as a second class citizen, but now I’m seeing that my opinions and my comfort matters.

I think I’m a lot more defensive, even when the situation doesn’t call for it. If someone raises their voice at me, I’ll immediately close myself off and refuse to engage. My supervisor recently asked me to work on a Saturday, and I sent a very stern email to her and my boss asking that I not be taken advantage of and be treated as an equal. They responded really well, which I appreciate. In retrospect, it may have been a little bit of an overreaction, but I’ve been taken advantage of so many times, both personally and professionally, that the idea of it ever happening again legitimately shakes me to the core.

I always grew up in wealthy upper-class white neighborhoods. I’m grateful to my parents for coming here from India with no money to their names, putting themselves through school, making a name for themselves, and providing my sister and I with the financial stability they were never afforded growing up in abject poverty in India. Still, i had a perpetual identity crisis growing up with people who didn’t look like me or share my experiences. My name isn’t even Abby, it’s Abhinaya, but my pre-school teacher assigned me the name Abby because “no one could pronounce my real name,” despite the fact that it’s spelled exactly like it sounds.

As I establish myself more on the stand-up comedy scene here in NYC, I noticed that the voices of women, especially women of color, are drowned out a lot. I’ve met a lot of people, both male and female, who told me that the #MeToo movement is just a way for attention depraved women to get money and fame. One of my supervisors told me she thinks women who wait to come forward are vile and horrible and selfish for ruining a man’s career. I was on the verge of tears. As a sexual assault survivor who didn’t even process what happened to me until a full year later, it was hard to hear someone I worked for undermine my experience like that. It took me months of therapy and an obscene amount of medications to convince myself that what happened was real and that I wasn’t crazy for feeling traumatized. All that progress can unravel almost entirely when people just nonchalantly say things like that to you.

I just hope people will listen instead of speaking over people who feel marginalized. The amount of times white men have spoken over me to tell me that the stand-up scene in New York doesn’t have a race or misogyny problem is frustrating. Wanting to share your story is only half the job, people should also want to have to listen.
