---
layout: post
title:  "Fiona"
date:   2017-12-18 14:45:09 -0500
image: "fiona.png"
---

I am a Black woman from Zimbabwe.

I grew up in a small town Mutare in Zimbabwe, then moved to the capital city Harare when I was 10.

I came to the US as a freshman in college in 2011. And that was probably the first time to be around people of various races and ethnic backgrounds different from my own. It didn't mean much to me then other than I was different and that was cool! But the longer I stayed in the US, the more I learnt that the color of my skin meant more than just that. That people made so many assumptions about me, how I had grown up or what my value system was, without even talking to me. I grew up in a society where gender and class, where the parts of my identity that had so much weight , but here race was so salient. It became a process of relearning and understanding America's history with race, gender ,sexuality, religion and then redefining for myself what my identity is and what that means to me. Because that’s all that matters.

I feel very strongly about injustices against women, especially sexual assault and any kind of abuse in intimate relationships. I would love to for people to really understand consent and for people to be taught how to seek consent and how to respond when consent is not given, because that were a lot of women are dying and being harmed, and young children too (both boys and girls)

We all have different stories, and they all are valuable, and that when we interact with people, we cannot know or assume what those stories. Instead lets approach each other with open minds and hearts. You just never know, so be kind.

I don't know. I don't buy into [the American dream]. I think the American dream only works for some and not all, depending on the circumstances. I think everyone is just trying to make it that best way they can. If it works out it does, if it doesn't you try again. That's the America I have seen in the past 7 years I have been here. People working hard no matter what.

[My biggest obstacle is] Always having to double prove myself. Always having to prove that I belong in certain spaces, that I have what it takes. People doubt you, they really do, and it sucks, especially in work spaces. Its like they are waiting for you to trip up and then go aha! And I hate that.

Remind yourself as many times as you need that you belong, you deserve to be loved, you matter, you exist. That is the biggest battle you could ever fight and win. Self validation.
